On-Disk Evasion
To begin our discussion of evasion, we
will first look
at four techniques used to obfuscate
files stored on a physical disk.
One of the earliest ways of avoiding
detection involved the use of packers.
Packers generate an executable that is not only smaller,
but is also functionally equivalent
with a completely new binary structure.
The resultant file has a new signature
and as a result,
can effectively bypass older and more
simplistic AV scanners.
Obfuscators reorganize and mutate code
in a way that makes it more difficult
to reverse-engineer.
This includes replacing instructions with
semantically equivalent ones,
inserting irrelevant instructions or
“dead code”,
splitting or reordering functions, and
so on.
“Crypter” software cryptographically
alters executable code,
adding a decrypting stub that restores
the original code upon execution.
This decryption happens in-memory,
leaving only the encrypted code on-disk,
all but invisible to signature detection.
Encryption has become foundational in
modern malware
as one of the most effective AV evasion
techniques.
Highly effective antivirus evasion
requires a combination of all of these
techniques in addition to other advanced
ones, including anti-reversing,
anti-debugging, virtual machine emulation
detection and so on.
In most cases, software protectors were
designed for legitimate purposes
but can also be used to bypass AV
detection.
Most of these techniques may appear
simple at a high-level,
but they are actually quite complex.
Refer to your lab guide for more detailed
information.